It's unclear how a request is made
to the loader from the browser what
is Remix doing behind the scene exactly?
>> Yeah, let's talk about that, so,
if I load the page initially you'll see
there actually no fetch
requests made here.
And that's because this
is all server rendered.
All of the content of the HTML here,
if you go to view source,
then you're gonna look at my first post,
just shows up right in there.
You'll actually notice
that this also shows up.
In a second place in here,
this is for hydration.
So, in react when all the JavaScript
shows up in the client,
we need to run all of
the React components.
So, we set up event handlers and
context and all of this stuff.
And so, to be able to render
this component on the client,
we need to have the data that's gonna
come back when you call useLoaderData.
And so, that data shows up in JSON that is
embedded in the content of the document.
All of that is managed for
you automatically by Remix.
It's on this fancy double underscore
variable that is on window.
That Remix just grabs, and
sticks into the Remix context so
it can grab that when
it hydrates your app.
So, you won't get a fetch request
when you land on the page.
But if you navigate to the page,
then you will.
So, if I go back to the homepage and
go to blog posts,
then I'm going to see this fetch request
right here to get all that data.
Because we're not doing full page
reloads between these pages,
we're gonna do a client
side transition and
so Remix says, okay, you're going over
there, let me go grab the data for that.
So that it's ready by the time
we render this component.
And so, this is actually fairly different
from the way that I used to build
react apps.
Where normally,
I would navigate instantly,
show a loading spinner
while I go get the data.
With Remix, the user says hey I
want to navigate, Remix says, okay,
hold that thought let me go get
the stuff and then we'll render.
And these are trade offs here and
Remix gives you levers to switch that to
like be able to navigate instantly and
show a spinner if that's what you want.
And that we'll discuss in
the advanced Remix workshop.
But yeah,
I think that the default makes more sense.
It actually resembles the way
that the web is as well.
So, if you're on,
here's actually a good example of that.
If I want to go to my profile page,
I click on this.
I'm sticking around here.
Nothing's changing until I actually
that page is loaded, right?
So, Remix again, it's a browser emulator,
just doing the same thing
that the browser would do.
>> This type of loader handle
what is serializable JSON?
>> Yeah, thank you for asking.
That's a great question.
So, what if we had a post date on here?
Okay, so now,
if I come over here and I say,
we're going to also say post.post
date.tolocaltime, whatever, right.
That's not working, and
the reason it's not working is
because post date is a string but
I literally just set it to a date and
in fact when I'm on the server
side that is a date.
That's exactly what it is, so what gives
TypeScript to Remix combo, what's up?
Well, JSON does not support the date
type and also doesn't support undefined,
it doesn't support like a whole
host of other like regex,
a whole bunch of things of functions,
all that stuff.
And so, yes, the answer to the question
is the use loader data generic
does handle non serializable types and
it will serialize those so
that you will not have a type error
when you say like to local times or
whatever that thing that
function is called.
Yeah, thank you Copilot.
So, yes that is that.
Now, some of you are probably maybe a
little let down by that you're like well,
I kinda wanted to preserve those
types across the network boundary.
So, there are projects
out there that allow you
to preserve those types where
they provide their own hooks.
Add their own JSON, where it will
serialize it in a special format and
then it will deserialize it to get all
of those, those actual same types.
If you want to use those be my guest,
personally what I like to do
is if I need something to be,
especially with dates, if I need that
to be formatted in a certain way.
If your server is on a different time zone
from your user then you can end up in
funny situation or
not just different time zone but do like,
desires a different format or something.
You can end up with a situation where
the server formats this way and
then the client formats it
this way you get a flash.
And so, I always like to do all
the formatting on the server.
Just format it there, if you want to care
about the user's preferences then give
them away to specify those preferences and
have your server reference those.
So, but again, long winded Kent over
here answering questions too long.
Yeah.
>> When you navigate to the post page,
you get just a data object back.
When do you get like the HTML
that's rendering the list?
Is that when you first visited the site,
or how does that work?
>> Yeah, so, when you navigate or when you
land on the page, you get all the HTML.
When you navigate to the page, you just
get the, let's clear all this out so
we can see that, you'll get just the data.
You'll also notice you get the JavaScript.
So, this is the react components that are
coming in here to generate what ends up
being the DOM here.
>> Can we transmit data any other
way like CSV or YAML or text?
>> Yeah, so, you can absolutely like
read CSV files or YAML files or
whatever in your loader.
If you want to get that data into
your loader, into your component
via use loader data that's got to
be JSON at the end of the day.
So, you can convert it to JSON or
whatever.
If you want to have some sort of endpoint
in your app that serves up a CSV like you
are generating a report or something,
then you can totally do that.
We are not going to get into this today
but it is a subject called resource routes
and basically you can make
a resource route like that.
You just don't export a default
component and now it's a JSON API.
Which is pretty rad and
then from there you can actually say,
I want my content type to be a PDF or
I wanna generate an image or whatever
you want to, the world is your oyster.
And so, yes, the answer to your
question is, yes, you can do that.
I can not think of a situation where
you would want to use loader data
to return a CSV.
More likely, you would want it to return
maybe a string, right, of what the CSV is,
and you could totally do that.
It would just ultimately,
it's gonna be serialized into JSON and
then deserialized.
Yeah.
>> So,
is a loader pretty much an API endpoint?
>> Yes, yeah.
So, no, creating API endpoints
in this directory and
then having some indirection
through a fetch call or whatever.
It's literally just this and yes,
it is 100% in an API endpoint.
I don't advise this but
you could click on this and
now you have the URL to get the data for
this route.
So, you could copy that and boom now
you've got your API endpoint, like I said,
don't do this,
if you really need an API endpoint,
just make resource routes
like I showed earlier.
But, yeah,
each one of these is its own API endpoint
that Remix handles calling for you.
>> Is used loader data effectively
binding the JSON to a template and
how does Remix know what
part of the tree to update?
>> Yeah, so, use loader data and
the loader for the component or for
the route where the component appears,
yes, they are bound together.
And so, you're effectively
taking saying here's my data,
here's my template, squish them
together and I have my HTML and my doc.
>> So, yeah that's maybe a way to
think about it it knows what part of
the tree to update because
it manages all of this.
We'll get into this a little bit here but
if we cd into exercise or
two, npx remix routes,
then this will go through the Remix
convention for your file system and
it shows you the routes that
are in your app currently.
And so, it says, here's our index route,
here's the file for
that index, or yeah,
here's our post route, it's an index file.
And here's the file for that.
And so, it knows which part of the tree
to update based on which module
is responsible for
that loader and that component.
And so, it only will update this part
of the tree it knows it doesn't need to
bother with this part or anything else.
Basically, magic is the answer.
>> The last question is,
is there a use case for
using a generic type of anything
other than type of loader and
use older data and if not why not
build that type and by default?
>> Yeah, great question so unfortunately,
just doing that is impossible
from a TypeScript standpoint.
There's no way for
TypeScript to know that this load us
loader data should be referencing those.
That's kind of a runtime thing.
So, it would be really cool
if that were possible but no,
that is just not possible with TypeScript.
So, yes, you will have this as
your basically the keys you
have to type [LAUGH] every time
you need to access voter data.